# Copy and Paste
* copy/delete word under cursor in Vim
`yw / byw`

* Assuming that the cursor is at the first character of the word simply do this in command mode:
     `yw`
y is for yank and w is for word.

Other ways of doing the same thing which are not as efficient:
     `vey`
the v starts visual select mode. e tells vim to move to end of word. y yanks or copies the word. to delete replace y with x.

if the cursor is somewhere in the middle of the word, add a b before the command as in:
     `byw`
or
     `bvey`
     
* I want to know if there is any way by which I can paste yanked text to the command window. For eg. if I have yanked a word and I want to grep it in some location I cant simply paste the word using 'p'. However if I copy it to clipboard, Shift-Insert will paste the same thing. Is there any tweak available which would allow me to paste yanked text to the vim command prompt? I am using gvim on Windows.

```
<ctrl+r>"
```

where " stands for default register.


# Split Layouts
  `:sp <filename>` split the layout vertically
  `:vs <filename>` horizontal split
  
  *Pro Tip:* Make sure to utilize tab completion to find files after typing :sp.
  *Pro Tip:* You can also specify different areas of the screen where the splits should occur by adding the following lines to the .vimrc file:
    ```
    set splitbelow
    set splitright
    ```
   *Pro Tip:* Want to move between the splits without using the mouse? Simply add the following to .vimrc and you can jump between splits with just one key combination:

   *split navigations*
    ```
    nnoremap <C-J> <C-W><C-J>
    nnoremap <C-K> <C-W><C-K>
    nnoremap <C-L> <C-W><C-L>
    nnoremap <C-H> <C-W><C-H>
    ```
    
# Buffers
While VIM can do tabs, many prefer buffers and splits. You can think of a buffer as a recently opened file. VIM provides easy access to recent buffers, just type :b <buffer name or number> to switch to an open buffer (autocomplete works here as well). You can also use :ls to list all buffers.

*Pro Tip:* At the end of the :ls output, VIM will prompt with Hit enter to continue. You can instead type :b <buffer number> and pick the buffer immediately while you still have the list displayed (which saves a keystroke and having to remember the buffer number).

# PEP8

To add the proper PEP8 indentation, add the following to your .vimrc:
```
au BufNewFile,BufRead *.py
    \ set tabstop=4
    \ set softtabstop=4
    \ set shiftwidth=4
    \ set textwidth=79
    \ set expandtab
    \ set autoindent
    \ set fileformat=unix
```

and
```
Plugin 'vim-scripts/indentpython.vim'
```

*Flagging Unnecessary Whitespace*
We also want to avoid extraneous whitespace. We can have VIM flag that for us so that it’s easy to spot – and then remove.
```
au BufRead,BufNewFile *.py,*.pyw,*.c,*.h match BadWhitespace /\s\+$/
```

Other file:
```
au BufNewFile,BufRead *.js, *.html, *.css
    \ set tabstop=2
    \ set softtabstop=2
    \ set shiftwidth=2
 ```   
 
 *Syntax Checking/Highlighting*
  ```
  Plugin 'scrooloose/syntastic'
  Plugin 'nvie/vim-flake8'

  let python_highlight_all=1
  syntax on
  ```

# Saving a read-only file edited in vi / vim

`:w !sudo tee %
